= Streama

Streama is a simple Ruby activity stream gem for use with the Mongoid ODM framework.

== Install

  $ gem install streama
  
== Usage

=== Define Activities

In an initializer define the activities and the fields you would like to store within the activity.

  Streama::Activity.define(:enquiry) do
    actor :user, :store => [:full_name]
    target :enquiry, :store => [:subject]
    referrer :listing, :store => [:title]
  end
 
Alternatively, you can extend the Activity class in your application.

  class Activity < Streama::Activity

    define(:enquiry) do
      actor :user, :store => [:full_name]
      target :enquiry, :store => [:subject]
      referrer :listing, :store => [:title]
    end

  end

=== Setup Actors

Include the Actor module in a class and override the default followers method.

  class User
    include Mongoid::Document
    include Streama::Actor

    def followers
      ...
    end
  end

You can define multiple activity streams to publish to in your Actor. 

The :followers parameter defines the method which returns recipients of the activity.

  class User
    include Mongoid::Document
    include Streama::Actor
  
    activity_stream(:friends, :followers => :friends)
    activity_stream(:family, :followers => :family)
  
    def friends
      ...
    end
    
    def family
      ...
    end
  
  end

If you like you can also override the default activity stream follower method

  activity_stream(:default, :followers => :your_method)

=== Setup Indexes

You need to manually create the indexes for both the Activity and Stream collections. You can do so by calling the create_indexes method.

  Streama::Activity.create_indexes
  Streama::Stream.created_indexes


=== Publishing Activity

In your controller or background worker:

  current_user.publish_activity(:enquiry, :target => @enquiry, :referrer => @listing)
  
This will send to to the :default stream. 

To send your activity to a different stream defined in your actor or a collection of receivers, pass in an additional :receivers parameter.

  current_user.publish_activity(:enquiry, :target => @enquiry, :referrer => @listing, :receivers => :friends)
  current_user.publish_activity(:enquiry, :target => @enquiry, :referrer => @listing, :receivers => current_user.find(:all, :conditions => {:group_id => mygroup}))

== Retrieving Activity

To retrieve all activity for an actor
  
  current_user.activity_stream
  
To retrieve and filter to a particular activity type

  current_user.activity_stream(:type => :activity_type)
  
You can paginate your results as well
  
  current_user.activity_stream(:page => 1, :per_page => 10)

== Compatibility

Streama is developed against Ruby 1.9.2 and Mongoid 2.0.0.rc7

== TODO

* Load an actor, target, referrer instance from an activity once retrieved.
* Create a module that listens for changes to targets, referrer objects and updates activity metadata.
* Write more documentation, YARD
* Write more tests
* Benchmarks

== Notes

* I haven't tested this in production yet. I still need to validate whether the way this gem works is ok.
* Streama inserts an association record for every recipient of an activity. MongoDB handles thousands of inserts within milliseconds, so it should be able to handle most cases. If storage size is a problem consider using capped collections (Need to test this with mongoid). I'm looking into whether embedding the relation within the actor object is better.
* If you are looking for something that works with ActiveRecord take a look at fullsailors' {activity_stream}[https://github.com/fullsailor/activity_stream] which inspired this gem.

= License

Copyright © 2011 Christos Pappas

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

= Credits

Christos Pappas: christos dot pappas at gmail dot com